Research Participant Consent Form 

 

Going AFK: interrogating the viability of ‘desistance’ theorising for narratives of cyber-dependent criminal careers 


Our codes of practice require that all persons who participate in research studies give their consent to do so. Please read the following carefully before the interview. At the interview we will go over each of these orally/via the chat, and your responses will be recorded by the researcher and confirmed by an independent third-party (a member of staff at Edinburgh Napier University).  


I freely and voluntarily consent to be a participant in the research project on the topic of ‘desistance from cyber-dependent crime’ to be conducted by Dr Shane Horgan, Dr Sarah Anderson and Sean Sturley who are faculty members at Edinburgh Napier University and the University at the West of Scotland.  


The broad goal of this research study is to explore the usefulness of theories of desistance (moving away from criminalised activity) for narratives of cyber-dependent criminalised activity. Specifically, I understand that I am taking part in a semi-structured interview which should last approximately two hours to complete. 


I understand that my responses will be anonymised. My real name will not be linked with the research materials, and all attempts will be made to ensure that I will not be identified or identifiable in any report subsequently produced by the researchers. 


I also understand that if at any time during the interview I feel unable or unwilling to continue, I am free to leave. That is, my participation in this study is completely voluntary, and I may withdraw from it without negative consequences. However, after data has been used in publications it will not be possible for my data to be removed. I understand that my data will be traceable after the interview via an agreed pseudonym, unique identifier, and security questions.  


I have agreed a pseudonym and unique identifier for my data and have kept a copy of the identifier for my records. I am aware that if I want to request the deletion of my data in the future, I will need to provide this unique identifier and answer security questions. 


In addition, should I not wish to answer any particular question or questions, I understand I am free to decline to answer without providing a reason. 


I have been given the opportunity to ask questions regarding the Interview and my questions have been answered to my satisfaction. 


I understand that the data generated in the interview will be stored securely on university-controlled storage systems and held in its anonymised form for at least 10 years after the study has been completed, in line with Edinburgh Napier University’s Data Management Policy. 


If the researchers move to another higher education institution, I agree/do not agree to the transport of my anonymised data to the destination institution. (please circle as appropriate - option given not to agree)  


I have read and understand the above and orally/textually consent to participate in this study. My consent is not a waiver of any legal rights. Furthermore, I understand that I will be able to access a copy of the informed consent form and may keep my own generated copy of the interview for my records if I wish.  


I agree to the audio recording of my interview or narration of the text chat for the purpose of transcription and analysis. 


I agree/do not agree to the secure transfer of my data to a transcription service for transcription purposes only (Please circle as appropriate – option given not to agree) 


I agree to the use of my anonymised data in the production of research outputs (e.g. articles, book chapters, blogs, case studies, conference presentations). 


I agree/do not agree to the use of my anonymised data for teaching purposes. (Please circle as appropriate – option given not to agree) 


I agree/do not agree to the storage and sharing of my data (anonymised audio recording (re-enactment) and anonymised transcript) with the UK Data service for controlled access by other researchers for future research and/or teaching purposes. (Please circle as appropriate - option given not to agree) 

 

Unique Identifier: ______________________________
