Research Participant information Sheet 

 

Going AFK:  interrogating the viability of ‘desistance’ theorising for narratives of cyber-dependent criminal careers 

 

Investigators:         Dr Shane Horgan, Edinburgh Napier University 

                       Dr Sarah, Edinburgh Napier University 

                       Sean Sturley, University of the West of Scotland 

PROJECT EMAIL: GoingAFK@protonmail.com 
 

About the Study  

In this study we aim to better understand how people’s hacking careers change over time. In particular, we want to understand how people move away from criminalized forms of hacking. We believe that there is insufficient research exploring how people desist (i.e. stop hacking), and want to see how well current theories and perspectives, derived from research into conventional forms of crime, really apply. We want to understand how hacking fits in with the other events and experiences in people’s life stories, and how the things happening in someone's life shapes and is shaped by hacking and hacker communities.  

The research is funded by a Research Incentive Grant from the Carnegie Trust.  

 

Who we are looking for?  

We are looking for people who in the past have been involved in illegal or malicious forms of hacking but have moved away from this. In other words, they have stopped their involvement in illegal or malicious forms of hacking completely or have significantly reduced their involvement.   Unfortunately, we can only interview people aged 18 or over. If you think you fit this description, we would love to hear from you. Due to the researchers’ limited language skills, the interview would need to be conducted in English.  

 

What is involved?   

If you agree to be involved, you will take part in an interview lasting approximately two hours.   

This interview is called a “life history” interview, and has been used a lot in research about “desistance” (stopping or moving away) from crime. During this interview, you will be asked questions about your life.  This includes questions about your life growing up and your life now, such as your family, school, work and people who mattered to you. This is because we take the view that to understand you and the place of computers, computing and cybercrime in your life, then it is important to understand your life more generally, offline as well as online. We will ask you the story of your hacking career, including how you got started, legal and illegal aspects, and how this has changed over time. We will also ask you questions about any offending you have been involved in offline. Finally, we will ask you questions about your beliefs and what you value in life. What we’re interested in is things about your life that you believe to be important in some fundamental way -- information about yourself and your life which says something significant about you and how you have come to be who you are. However, you do not have to tell us any information about your life that you do not want to.  

The interview will be conducted via Signal, Ricochet, Protonmail or the platform with which you are most comfortable where possible. Current face to face fieldwork is suspended due to the Covid-19 Epidemic.  

The interview will be audio-recorded by us, with a digital recorder. Where the interview is conducted by internet-relay chat, the interviewer will read aloud the conversation for recording purposes. If you wish to keep a record of the interview yourself, we are happy for you to do so but cannot be responsible for the security of that data.    

 

What will happen to my data?   

Where the interview takes place over voice-over internet protocol, your interview will happen over loudspeaker in a private space and be voice recorded for later transcription on a separate, non-internet connected, encrypted audio-recorder. Where the interview is undertaken by internet relay chat or other text based medium, an audio-recording will be made of the researcher reading the chat log aloud. These transcripts will be anonymized. Together we will agree a pseudonym to represent your data. The data will be analyzed by researchers working on this project.   

The raw audio data you provide will be deleted once the transcriptions have been verified. These transcripts will be stored digitally on the secure servers of the lead researcher’s university. To comply with the University’s research data management policy, these anonymous transcripts will be stored on our secure servers for at least 10 years.  This data will not be accessible to anyone outside the project team and transcription service, unless you also agree for these anonymized transcripts to be made available to other researchers or to students via the UK Data Service.  The value of making data available in this way means that other researchers and students can do additional analyses themselves. Equally it means our conclusions can be subjected to scrutiny and interrogation by the scholarly community. We believe that information should be freely available, however, there are risks that you should be aware of. When data is made available to other researchers, it decreases the level of anonymity afforded to you as people outside of the research team for this project can view that data. This project team will be able to set terms and conditions of use but will not have complete control over how the data is used after it has been shared.  Life histories inevitably produce quite detailed information about individuals lives and therefore add an additional level of risk. We will try our best to carefully review and exclude any details we think may pose a risk if you do agree to this. This will not happen until at least January 2023. 

Your data will be used to create an anonymized case study telling the story of your life, which may be published in shortened form. We will try our best to ensure that these case studies are not so detailed that someone could be identified, however we cannot absolutely guarantee this. Where you believe that events and experiences are particularly unique to you, please make us aware of this. Anonymized quotations from your interview may also be used in future publications. Publications will take multiple forms such as academic journal articles, book chapters, blogs, research reports, and conference presentations.  



Do I have to take part?  

No! Your participation is completely voluntary. You should take your time and think very carefully about all the information in this sheet, and whether you want to be involved. Please feel free to ask us any questions.  

Prior to the interview we will ask you to confirm your consent to take part. This ensures that you understand the information outlined above, that your participation is voluntary, and that any questions or concerns you raise have been addressed. You are free to stop the interview at any time, and if you wish you can ask for your data to be destroyed. We understand that people change their minds. After the interview, you may decide that you no longer wish to take part and that you want your data to be destroyed. You can withdraw from the study altogether at any time up to one month after the interview. You may also be able to withdraw later, but this may be more difficult if your data has been included in publications. You do not need to explain why or provide a reason. You will need to keep a record of the pseudonym and the identifying number for your data that we give you, so that we are able to work out which data is yours and to verify your identity.  

 

Disclosure of criminal activity, researcher disclosure, and the limits to confidentiality in this study  

All social researchers are bound by strict codes of research ethics and practice.  As researchers interested in crime and movement away from it, we want you to be able to talk openly about your experiences. We intend to keep your data in confidence, however there may be situations in which we would be obliged to disclose information to relevant authorities.  These issues may have no relevance to you, but we want to be transparent about all our obligations.  

First, if we believe we have information about acts of terrorism or money laundering, then we are legally required to disclose this to Police Scotland, the national police service of the country where we are based. Ethically, where we believe a child is at risk of abuse or neglect, or there is a clear threat to someone’s life, we would also feel obliged to disclose this. Equally, if you provide specific details of a plan to complete suicide, we may also feel compelled to disclose this information to relevant authorities. We will also direct you to sources of support and health services where possible.   

Second there may be situations in which law enforcement attempt to compel us to disclose or share our data (e.g. computer misuse offences). In these instances, we would work with our respective legal teams to resist forced disclosure of data where possible. We also take a number of actions to minimize the risk to data this poses. We will not keep your name/alias or contact details, beyond the time necessary for arranging interviews. We will remove as soon as possible after transcription data (e.g. names, places, identifying details) that could be used to connect data with a particular participant and permanently delete audio-recordings or chat logs. In the interview we will agree on a pseudonym and a unique identifying number. After this point we will not be able to connect the data to any identity beyond the agreed pseudonym or identifying number. These will be known only to you and the interviewer and should not have any connection to your online or offline identity. This means will not be able to connect any data to a request for information about a specific individual or screen name. If you would like to discuss your data (for example, requesting its deletion) you will need to contact us with both of these details and answer a specific number of security questions based on your data. We will not send transcripts after the interview. This is why we are happy for you to keep a record of the interview yourself if you wish, but we cannot be responsible for the security of that data.    

 It is important to also be mindful that there are risks to participant confidentiality of using the internet more generally, for example targeted and mass surveillance. To address this, we will do our best to facilitate interviews on the platforms our participants feel most secure, private and anonymous. We encourage you to do research on your preferred platform and also to take basic steps to protect your anonymity (e.g. use of VPN). You can find more information about risks to your privacy and anonymity via the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Tor Project.   

To minimise risk to yourself, again we suggest that you do not provide names or specific details relating to past criminal activity, which has not been prosecuted, or future plans for criminal activity.  

Thank you for taking the time to read about and consider taking part in our research. If you have any questions about the research, please ask or contact the Principal Investigator (contact details are shown below). If you would like to be a participant in the study and haven’t already done so, please contact get in touch via the channels below.   

 

 

Dr Shane Horgan  

Lecturer in Criminology  

School of Applied Sciences  

Edinburgh Napier University  

Sighthill Campus  

Edinburgh, EH11 4BN  

Research profile: https://www.napier.ac.uk/people/shane-horgan  

  

Dr Sarah Anderson  

Lecturer in Criminology  

School of Applied Sciences  

Edinburgh Napier University  

Sighthill Campus  

Edinburgh, EH11 4BN  

 

PROJECT EMAIL: GoingAFK@protonmail.com 

  
 If you worried about this research, or if you are concerned with how it is being conducted, please contact the Convenor for the School of Applied Sciences Research Integrity Committee via: School of Applied Sciences, Edinburgh Napier University, Sighthill Campus, Edinburgh, EH11 4BN, or email: ethics.sas@napier.ac.uk  
