Participant Debrief Sheet  

 
Thank you very much for participating in our research project which aims to better understand how people’s hacking careers change over time. In particular, we want to understand how people move away from criminalized forms of hacking.  We want to understand how hacking fits in with the other events and experiences in people’s life stories, and how the things happening in someone's life shapes and is shaped by hacking and hacker communities. Thank you for sharing your story to help us with this. 


We hope that you have found it interesting and have not been upset by the topics we have discussed. If you have found any parts of this research distressing and want to get in touch with the researchers, please do so via the agreed communication channels.  


If you are experiencing emotional distress and need further support, befriender’s worldwide offer support or links to supports internationally. You can visit their website www.befrienders.org for further information and a list of their international helplines by country.  

 
Our next steps will be to further anonymise your data and analyse it for our project. We will not store your contact details, but for further information about the project you can see our project’s website or social media account. You can also reach us at our project's proton mail address: GoingAFK@protonmail.com  


Your data will be used to create an anonymized case study telling the story of your life, which may be published in shortened form. We will try our best to ensure that these case studies are not so detailed that someone could be identified, however we cannot absolutely guarantee this. Where you believe that events and experiences are particularly unique to you, please make us aware of this. Is there anything you’ve mentioned that you feel is particularly identifying to you that we need to be aware of in developing our case studies?  


More generally, at this stage, is there anything you have told us that you are not comfortable with us including in our project or publications? If so please make us aware.  

 
IF APPLICABLE: At the beginning of the interview, you agreed for your interview to be securely transferred to a transcription service, in order to be transcribed. You also agreed to the storage and sharing of your data (anonymised audio recording (re-enactment) and anonymised transcript) with other researchers via the UK Data Service for future research and/or teaching purposes. Reflecting back on what we have discussed, are you still happy for this/these to happen? (Please confirm your unique participant identifier at this point).  

Remember, if you decide you want to withdraw from the project you need to reach us at our proton mail address, providing your unique identifier and be able to answer security questions. You do not need to provide a reason for withdrawing. Please make any request to withdraw within one month of the interview data, after which point, we cannot guarantee you will be able to do this. However, if possible, we will try to facilitate your request. Storage of your anonymised data with the UK Data Service will not happen until at least January 2023. 


Do you have any questions or concerns?  


If you would like to speak to someone independent of the research team about its conduct, please get in touch with the Edinburgh Napier School of Applied Sciences research integrity committee at: ethics.sas@napier.ac.uk  
