Privacy Notice  

  

Name of Research Project: Going AFK?: interrogating the viability of ‘desistance’ theorising for narratives of cyber-dependent criminal careers 

  

Description of Project: By generating narratives with people who have engaged in criminalised forms of hacking, this project will qualitatively explore how conceptualisations of ‘desistance from crime’, largely arising from traditional ‘street’ offending help understanding criminalised hacker’s career. 
The projects central aims are to explore the most effective, ethical, and secure ways for engaging in this area of qualitative research, develop a more robust and critical understanding of the practices capture by the term ‘hacking’, and to problematise the concept of ‘desistance’. 

  

Data Controller  

Edinburgh Napier University   

Purposes for collection/processing  

The project will employ interdisciplinary collaboration with cybersecurity to design an opensource PC configuration that can engage with risky online spaces for research. 
This will lead to the production of a freely accessibly guide to open-source software configurations for social researchers that can transform and enable more secure and ethical research on criminalised forms of hacking and online spaces. 

The project will use the narratives generated to explore and interrogate the understandings of criminalised forms of hacking and the extent to which the criminal justice system is appropriate to support ‘desistance’. 
There is a lack of primary data from people previously involved in criminalised forms of hacking which has limited social scientists ability to develop nuanced or appreciative understandings of the activity and those involved.  

 

Legal basis  

Art 6(1)(e), performance of a task in the public interest/exercise of official duty vested in the Controller by Statutory Instrument No. 557 (S76) of 1993 as amended, e.g. for education and research purposes. Your data will not be used for any other purposes. Because we are processing under Art 6(1)(e), participants have the right to object to any processing at all in relation to the study. 

 

This research project does not intend to collect or process any special category personal data e.g. criminal conviction data, political opinions that can be associated with you or your identity. Please do not provide any specific information of this type in your responses (e.g. names, places, dates, organisations) to research questions.  

  

In the unlikely event that special category personal data is collected, the University relies on Article 9(2)(j) for processing.  

 

All raw data will be deleted after transcription and anonymisation has taken place. At the end of our interview, the researchers will also check with participants whether any of the data provided could be identifying to assist with the process of anonymisation.   

 

Whose information is being collected  

Individuals who identify as having previously engaged in criminalised forms of ‘hacking’.  

  

What type/classes/fields of information are collected  

Primary data from individual interviews– life history and lived experiences.  

 

Contact details will temporarily be retained on secure email (protonmail) but not held contemporaneously or colocated with associated primary data.   

Who is the information being collected from  

From the data subjects directly in the case of primary interview.  

  

Is personal data shared with internal and external to the University  

   

No personal data will be shared beyond the research team (Dr Shane Horgan, Dr Sarah Anderson, Sean Sturley) and Edinburgh Napier University’s confidential, secure transcription service after anonymisation.  

  

How long is the information kept for  

  

Contact details will be retained for the time necessary to organise the interview but not beyond this point. These will not be held contemporaneously or colocated with associated primary data. 

 

All non-anonymised data (whether in the form of raw audio recordings or transcriptions of these recordings) will be destroyed immediately after anonymisation has taken place. Only anonymized data will be analysed in this study. 

  

 The policy also requires that funders and/or sponsors requirements are met. Long-term storage is provided through the Edinburgh Napier University data repository. Participants will be asked to consent to long-term storage of the data they provide should it be of relevance to the research. Where it is, the given data will be archived in its anonymised and codified format, unless the participant withdraws permission before the data is anonymised and codified, after which it will not be retrievable.  

 

Personal data will (e.g. voice recordings will be shredded from all storage and backups as soon as transcription has been completed and verified). Communications via the project email address or researchers email addresses will be deleted as soon as interview has been arranged. We will not be able to contact participants after this point. Participants are encouraged not to use real names in these communications or correspondence and to consider the privacy enhancing measures linked on the project information sheet.  

Will the data be used for any automated decision making  

No.  

Is information transferred to a third country? Outside the EEA and not included in the adequate countries list.  

No.  

You can access all the University’s privacy notices using the following link: https://staff.napier.ac.uk/services/governance-compliance/governance/DataProtection/Pages/statement.aspx   

You have a number of rights available to you with regards to what personal data of yours is held by the University and how it is processed – to find out more about your rights, how to make a request and who to contact if you have any further queries about Data Protection please see the information online using the following URL: https://staff.napier.ac.uk/services/governance-compliance/governance/DataProtection/Pages/default.aspx  

  

  

